hello everyone its Elina and today I'll
share a few guys how I make my study
plans now for me study plans are not
something that I would use you know on
like a weekly basis during my normal
term time I only use study plans when I
have a certain amount of time set for
studying for an exam and I know I need
to prepare for that I want to use my
time as effectively as I can and that's
why I use these plans but I wouldn't
recommend using them on a weekly basis
during your normal school year because I
just think it's way too much effort and
time that goes into planning Olaf is and
making sure that the plan stays up to
date so I wouldn't recommend doing this
normally but I would recommend doing it
for bigger exams that are coming up so I
usually do this for like final exams or
you know mock exam so we're coming up
which is what I'm doing right now
because I'm preparing from a Marc exam
so I thought it would be great if I
could share if you guys the study plan
that I made for my mock exam now the
first thing I recommend doing for making
an effective study plan is to write out
all the things that you have to do and
really take your time for this really
thing what are all the things that I
have to revise even if you noticing
quite well put it down so that you make
sure that you look over it again I mean
this is really really important because
you can start making a study plan
without knowing what are all the things
that you actually need to do one easy
way to do this is to go to the syllabus
of your subject to check all the things
out on it that you need to know for the
exam and then see do I have study notes
on this however I already revise this do
I know which by heart yes or no and then
just put it down if you need to know for
the exam and make sure you also write
down do I need to take notes on this or
do I already have study notes so that
you know how much work needs to be done
for each bullet point on your to-do list
I can also show you guys what my to-do
lists apply for my winter break so here
you can see it this is what it looks
like so I just had all my subjects and
then there's supervisions the essay
feedback that I got because I wanted to
look over it because I'm gonna write
essays in my exams and then my study
notes I had basically done them so I
just wrote it down but I didn't really
need to and lecture notes from the
lectures I missed and further reading
just to make sure that I don't forget
about that and this is a very small list
for what I normally do but that's
because I had all my notes on these
things done and I knew that so I knew I
just
you know had to go over them to revise
them so this was pretty easy make huge
lists for me but normally I would
recommend you know taking a bigger piece
of paper and writing it all down I just
knew that this one was gonna be a bit
smaller so it was fine once you've made
your list of all the things that you
need to study for your exam I would
recommend looking at how many weeks you
still have left leading up to that exam
and then making a study plan just an
empty one and for all of these weeks so
that you see how much time you have for
me my weekly study plans usually look
like this and normally just make them
using pages but if you guys would like
to have the template for this particular
weekly study plan I linked it in the
description box below for you guys and
so basically what I do is I would just
you know make these empty plans so you
see how many weeks you actually have how
many days you have for me it just really
helps to visualize that new you know
sees the entire plan like scroll through
it and see this is how many days I
actually have and where I can just
tribute all my tasks now before you
enter any study - duze into these empty
plans I would recommend putting down
everything that you know of that has
nothing to do with studying so for me
you got all these red things here so you
know I have to write a few application
so I put them down so I know what I have
to write them and that I actually don't
forget about it and just so that I also
know that they are gonna take up some
time so that I just know I can't do as
much on the days where there's something
red as I could on days where there's
nothing so you know if you have any
events coming up that you know of or you
are doing a particular extracurricular
and you're still doing it although you
and study leave or you know maybe you're
not even having study leave pull all of
that down to make sure that you are
aware of these things and also think
about how these things affect you not
just your time schedule you know in
terms of like how much time you actually
have to study but also in terms of how
exhausted you're gonna be please you
know it does make a difference wherever
you went to you cooking extra curricular
or wherever you play football for two
hours because one is gonna make you
really tired you probably are going to
need a shower after it and that just
takes away a lot more time and a lot
more productivity than the other one
so make sure to think about these
factors when you're then allocating
tasks to these particular days my
personal rule and you can see this in my
study plan as well is to only have free
study to do is per day you can see
there's only free spaces to put in stuff
for studying and I think this is a
really good way of ensuring that you're
not putting too much stuff on to your
plate per day
but I don't break the task apart too
much for my study plant so you know I
don't write out okay do constitutional
supervision one wingdings one to ten or
whatever I keep it a bit more general in
my plan and I do this on purpose because
I want this time to be super super easy
for me to look at and know what I should
be doing and what I do is in order to
make sure that I also know about you
know all the little parts that are
included it means like big headings like
for example here one is constitutional
or supervision before okay so what does
that mean so how many of the readings
should I look at how do any special
readings which I didn't get at the start
which I should look over again and all
those things so those things I think
that I schedule in my calendar so for
every day that I have in my study
schedule I also have a day in my
calendar where I clearly schedule okay
this time I'm gonna do this this and
this and then I'm gonna do this and I'm
going to just so for example let's take
the Monday from my study schedule so
here you can see I'm supposed to you
know hand in one application and then
I'm gonna look over a couple of
supervisions from Constitution at all so
what's in my schedule at that day would
be okay when am I gonna submit that
application do I need to read over it
again so I'm gonna plan in some time for
that and then constitutional or
supervision one when am I gonna do the
first bunch of readings when I'm gonna
do the second bunch of reading when I'm
gonna look over my supervision notes
what am I gonna look over my reading
notes all these things are then very
detailed in my calendar if you guys want
to know more about how I put all these
little things into my calendar and how I
organized it I made an entire video on
time management where I explain that and
you can see it up here I'm also gonna
link it in the description box below for
you guys so you can just click on that
once you've allocated all your tasks and
you've really thought about okay how
exhausted am I going to be on that day
how much time am I gonna have I would
recommend printing out your study
schedule personally I'm just somebody
who when I see it on paper it makes me
commit to it a bit more maybe this is
kind of weird and it doesn't work for
you but for me it just really works when
I you know have a hanging on my desk and
I just see it every day I also have it
as my desktop background on my laptop so
that whenever I turn it on I just
immediately see it and it reminds me
over time okay this is what I should be
doing and I think it's also really
effective because you don't need to
search for any files you know like
trying to figure out what you should be
doing you're not wasting any time and
it's also super easy to access it when
you're not working
on your desk for example like if you
went to the lie
now I can always happen that you know
something that you hadn't planned
happens and you just don't have time to
finish all your tasks on a particular
day so then I would recommend taking a
highlighter and highlighting whatever
tasks you didn't finish so that when you
get up the next day you can look at your
study schedule and you see oh wait there
was this one thing I didn't finish so
that you prioritize that one first and
then you go and tackle the tasks for
your day I think is really important
because you know if you're just like
okay so I didn't finish this but I don't
have time for it that is not a good
approach because then your study
schedule is not very effective so really
make sure there are tasks that you
hadn't completed yet that dude him the
next day and this is what I think using
a calendar in addition to the study plan
is really really important because you
can just quickly you know put that in
your calendar and make sure that you do
it first thing in the morning before you
start working on your study plan now one
thing that's really important to keep in
mind when you're doing your study plan
is to make sure that you have enough
time to revise the things that you
already revised because otherwise you're
just going to forget about them so here
for example for my static line you can
see that there's actually quite a lot of
times where I'm just going to do some
revision so for example here on these
two days I'm gonna study constitutional
law but then on Wednesday I'm actually
just going to revise it and then again
I'm gonna revise it on Friday and once
again on Saturday so that just allows me
to make sure that I'm actually revising
it enough and I think that's really
really important that you know whenever
you have something you know where you're
studying over a longer period of time I
mean for me this is just one week out of
my study schedule of weeks you know that
you make sure that you keep revising all
the content that you did so that you
make sure that you actually are on top
of a Content the only content as you may
notice which I'm only gonna revisable is
this criminal law because my supervisor
is an angel and he literally told us
what was going to be on the exam and
it's a very little part of the syllabus
which I know very well and I have very
good study notes on and I just know that
I can revise the entire thing in like an
hour to two so that's what I know I
don't really need to revise this on a
daily basis especially because the topic
is also very new and we just did it so
I'm still very good but I've done with
all the other subjects I don't know
what's coming at me in that exam so
that's why I need to
it's everything and that's why I'm also
making sure that I keep revising
whatever I studied so that it stays in
my brain and last but not least don't
forget to add a bit of time for past
papers personally I'm not the biggest
fan of past papers I don't really know
why but it haven't really helped me a
lot I don't really see a big difference
and when I do pass paper somewhere don't
do them for me the result is kind of the
same but sometimes it just helps to like
look at past paper questions just to
make sure that you know what they're
going to be asking like how they're
asking I'm just so that you know how the
exams gonna be structured that's why I
really like pass papers because they
just give you a feeling for what that
exams gonna look like when you open it
which i think is always great because
then you're not scared that you know
you've forgot to write your name
somewhere or you know you put it wrongly
together where you answered questions
from the wrong section I just think it's
great if you have a look at the exam
structure before because then you really
know what's coming at you and you're not
wasting time trying to figure out
questions from British section you have
to answer or something like that because
you already know about and yeah those
are all my tips for making an effective
study plan I hope you guys found this
helpful and if you have any questions
for me you can drop them in a comment
below or send me a message for the
contact section off my blog which is
linked in the infobox below thank you
guys so much for watching have a nice
day bye